>> Will Sentance: Let's so
quickly now talk.
Though not quickly as
it's really important.
How the hell do we get JavaScript
started to do all this?
In the web browser,
when I write code in the web browser,
I open an HTML file in there.
I have some JavaScript code in there.
And the browser just runs it.
Turns on.
When as soon as you open a web page in
the browser, it turns on JavaScript and
starts running through JavaScript code.
Beautiful.
We don't have that.
We don't have that here.
So here's how we do it.
Let's see over here.
I'm for now gonna get rid of
Michael's Mac, if you don't mind.
Okay over here.
>> Will Sentance: This is Will's Mac.
>> Will Sentance: Well actually hold on.
Ignore that, ignore that, ignore that.
We are building for Twitter's computer.
We're building for Twitter's computer.
I need to, in Twitter's computer,
turn on node to run JavaScript code.
Where can I write JavaScript code?
Anywhere, I can write it on a napkin and
copy it in.
Is that a word in America?
Yeah exactly.
I can write on a napkin and copy it in.
I don't know what words
you have in America.
I don't.
I write on a piece of paper,
as what like what Harry Potter
was written originally on.
I could write on that,
a beautiful code, and copy it in.
Or in a text editor on Vasco whatever.
So in VS code I guess that CBS
code this be both popular.
I will start writing JavaScript
code like what is it?
Server, account server,
HTTP dot and so forth.
I'll then save that as a file.
Maybe I call it server.js.
It doesn't matter.
I would it server.js, whatever I want.
.js is a text file but by the way it's
actually got JavaScript code in it.
But it's just a text file.
Now, I now need to turn on,
this is an app.
Note it's an app that I
turn on like a web browser.
Web browser's an app that has access
to computers internal features.
The web browser as well, right, because
it's sending out messages to the Internet
through the computer internal features.
Knows no different.
How do I open a normal app on my
computer like the web browser?
Double click.
Exactly.
Unfortunately, node isn't like that.
I can't double click node,
because developers hate double clicking.
They are pathologically oppose for
using that mice, their mouse.
What it mice?
No, I call things.
These are mouse, what's a mice?
They are pathologically
opposing using the mouses.
So, instead they have a different way
of interfacing with the computer's
features of using apps,
turning on apps and its Google terminal.
You've seen it before,
probably the terminal command line.
I'm sure many of you seen it.
And we can turn stuff on from it, we can
run Spotify songs on here, by our Spotify,
kind of cool.
But we can also turn on node by
writing node and pressing enter.
When we do so, we want to have it
start running some JavaScript code.
Where do we tell it to run the code from?
Well, we could write code from here.
It will start running.
Turn on JavaScript,
start running JavaScript code,
turn on node features
using JavaScript code.
But we're not.
We're gonna save that code in a file and
just put the name of it here.
Server.js.
Node server.js, William?
>> William: Yes, sir?
>> Will Sentance: Sir, honored.
Wait a sec, we'll go to Andrews,
I'm watching Andrews eyes be
distracted by the laptop, all right.
>> Andrew: Sorry.
>> Will Sentance: No,
of course not don't worry at all.
>> Andrew: I was seeing if I
had node installed already.
>> Will Sentance: That is
an important question.
So you right node if it's installed,
it will start loading.
It will turn on node ot it will
turn on the java engine that
will allow you to turn on node
features by writing java script code.
We write all that java script code
in the file, save it as server.js or
whatever you want to save it as.
Look at this I learned how to, yeah.
Yeah, thank you.
[LAUGH] Never was a more sarcastic hand
Ray, Clark raised by Matt all right.
There it is.
Save it load, okay.
Write the code in the VS code or whatever.
Load into node and run it.
How to load and
using the terminal interface.
Load it in.
This is gonna load this
in to start running.
Here's the problem.
We need to reload our code with node,
the code of jobs.
If we change anything do our jobs code,
we have to turn off node.
Turn it back on.
Run through the jobs code and
settle all those features all over again.
Because I know you could say that
someone raises more than, hold on,
can you selectively turn node back on.
You selectively edit stuff down here
that we know is gonna have break
changes and live features.
Now you just switch of the whole server,
the whole of the node and
you just turned it back on again.
To do so, we use a slightly different
variant of node which is gonna store,
is optional on the challenges.
We run slightly different
variant if we want to have it
automatically every time we change jobs or
code and save it that that code.
As soon as we save it, the node app
will turn off and turn back on and run
through the draft code all again, all over
again setting up the node features and
do it automatically every time we make any
changes to JavaScript by using nodemon.
It's just a slightly different
version of node that
was a pack is a wrapper around node.
That when it, well I just say,
I mean JavaScript change happens,
it will turn off node, turn it back on
again, run through the JavaScript code,
set up all the features again to make
sure your changes are applied down here.
Okay, that's using nodemon.